Home 
 Fishing 
 Saltwater Fishing 
 Recreational Regulations 
 Spiny Lobster
 Spiny Lobster
 Regulations
 Spiny Lobster Sport Season
 Regular Spiny Lobster Season
Season: July 28-29, 2027 (last consecutive Wednesday and Thursday of July each year, for residents and non-residents)
Daily Bag Limit: 6 per person for Monroe County and Biscayne National Park; 12 per person for rest of Florida
Possession limit on the water: equal to the daily bag limit
Possession limit off the water: equal to the daily bag limit on July 29, 2026, and double the daily bag limit on July 30, 2026. 
Possession limits are enforced on and off the water.
Minimum Size Limit: Carapace length must be larger than 3 inches, measured in the water. 
Allowable Gear: Landing nets or dip nets, bullynets with a diameter not exceeding 3 feet, and hoop nets with a diameter not exceeding 10 feet.
Prohibited Gear: Any device that could puncture, penetrate, or crush the exoskeleton or flesh of the lobster, bleach or other chemical solution, artificial habitat, and traps.
Required Gear: Possession and use of a measuring device required at all times. Find out how to measure a spiny lobster. 
Night Diving: Prohibited in Monroe County (ONLY during sport season). Diving is defined as swimming at or below the surface of the water.
Prohibited Areas: Harvest of lobster is prohibited in John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park during the sport season. At all times, harvest of lobster is prohibited in Everglades National Park, Dry Tortugas National Park, no-take areas in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, in the Biscayne Bay/Card Sound Lobster Sanctuary, and in the five Coral Reef Protection Areas in Biscayne National Park.
Season: Aug. 6-March 31
Daily Bag Limit: 6 per person
Possession limit on the water: Equal to the daily bag limit
Minimum Size Limit: Carapace length must be larger than 3 inches, measured in the water.
Allowable Gear: Landing nets or dip nets, bullynets with a diameter not exceeding 3 feet, and hoop nets with a diameter not exceeding 10 feet.
Prohibited Gear: Any device that could puncture, penetrate, or crush the exoskeleton or flesh of the lobster, bleach or other chemical solution, artificial habitat, and traps.
Required Gear: Possession and use of a measuring device required at all times. Find out how to measure a spiny lobster. 
Prohibited Areas: Harvest of lobster is prohibited in John Pennekamp Coral Reef State Park during the sport season. At all times, harvest of lobster is prohibited in Everglades National Park, Dry Tortugas National Park, no-take areas in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, in the Biscayne Bay/Card Sound Lobster Sanctuary, and in the five Coral Reef Protection Areas in Biscayne National Park.
 Florida Keys/Monroe County Information
Regulations for Recreational Harvest and Lobster Information for Monroe County 
Monroe County Spearfishing 
Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary 
Call 305-852-7717 or visit http://floridakeys.noaa.gov for information about no take areas in the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary. Please call the FWC Marathon office at 305-289-2320.
 Other Prohibitions
Unless exempt, a recreational saltwater fishing license and a lobster permit are required to harvest spiny lobster
Lobster must be landed in whole condition. Separating the tail from the body is prohibited in state waters.
The harvest or possession of eggbearing spiny lobster, or any other eggbearing species of lobster belonging to the families Palinuridae (spiny lobsters), Scyllaridae (slipper lobsters) or Synaxidae (furry lobsters) is prohibited
No person shall harvest or attempt to harvest spiny lobster using any device which will or could puncture, penetrate or crush the exoskeleton (shell) or the flesh of the lobster
Recreational trapping prohibited
Regardless of what species you are fishing for, bag limits are only for properly licensed individuals and those people exempt from license requirements who are actively harvesting. People harvesting may not exceed their individual bag limit and take someone else's bag limit. That is, people (including children) who are not actively harvesting or are not properly licensed (if a license is required) may NOT be counted for purposes of bag limits.
Harvesting lobster from a non-permitted artificial habitat is prohibited in Florida
 Florida's Spiny Lobster Season
 Learn more about Florida's spiny lobster seasons including regulations, safety and protecting Florida's corals.
