Home 
 Fishing 
 Saltwater Fishing 
 Recreational Regulations 
 Stone Crab
 Stone Crab
 Requirements for Recreational Traps 
Recreational fishers age 16 and older (including those normally exempt from needing a license) are required to complete an online, no-cost recreational stone and/or blue crab trap registration before using stone or blue crab traps.
To register, visit GoOutdoorsFlorida.com and add the Recreational Stone Crab Trap Registration or the Recreational Blue Crab Trap Registration to your fishing license account. 
Upon completion, each person will receive unique trap registration numbers that must be included on each trap along with the owner’s full name and address. Registration numbers for stone crab traps will begin with the letter “S”; registration numbers for blue crab traps will begin with the letter “B.” This information must be legible and must be permanently attached to each trap.
This no-cost registration will allow FWC to collect important information about these recreational fisheries needed for future stock assessments and management decisions. 
Harvesters under 16 are not required to register but still must mark their traps with their name and address.
 Regulations
Minimum Size Limit: 2 7/8 inches; only claws may be harvested.
Daily Bag Limit: 1 gallon of claws per person or 2 gallons per vessel, whichever is less.
Harvest from egg-bearing crabs prohibited.
State Waters Harvest Seasons: Open Oct. 15 - May 1 (closed on May 2)
Traps may be placed in the water 10 days prior to the opening of the season, but once placed, you may not tend to the traps until the start of the season, at which time you may begin harvesting.
Gear Requirements:
Legal Gear: stone crab trap (max. 5 per person), dip or landing net
Illegal Gear: Any device that can puncture, crush or injure the crab body, such as spears, grains, grabs, hooks or similar devices.
 Trap Specifications
Maximum trap size is 24 inches by 24 inches by 24 inches or a volume of 8 cubic feet
Traps can be made from either wood, wire or plastic
The throat or entrance must be 5 ½ inches by 3 ½ inches
Throat must be no larger than 5 1/2 by 3 1/8 inches in Collier, Monroe and Miami-Dade
If the throat or entrance is round, it cannot exceed 5 inches in diameter
Round throats prohibited in Collier, Monroe and Miami-Dade counties
The trap must have a degradable panel that is 5 ½ inches by 3 ½ inches and is made of cypress or untreated pine slat no thicker than ¾ of an inch
Wire traps must have at least three unobstructed escape rings (2 3/8 inches in diameter) located on a vertical side of the trap.
For the 2024-25 stone crab season and beyond, an unobstructed escape ring 2 3/16 inches in diameter to be located within a vertical exterior trap wall for all recreational and commercial plastic or wood stone crab traps is required.
Harvester's name, address, and unique recreational trap registration number must be permanently affixed to each trap and legible
The buoy must be no smaller than 6 inches and must be marked with a legible “R” that is at least 2 inches tall.
Buoys are not required if trap is fished from a dock.
 Trapping Regulations
Recreational stone crab harvesters may only harvest from, fish with, set, or place in Florida waters the 5 stone crab traps registered to them.
Recreational stone crab harvesters may not harvest from, fish with, set, or place in Florida waters any trap registered to another individual. 
Traps must be pulled manually (not by a trap-puller). Any vessel that is rigged with a trap-puller will be considered a commercial vessel and the appropriate licenses will be required.
Traps must be pulled only during daylight hours.
Traps must not be placed in navigational channels of the Intracoastal waterways, or in navigational channels maintained and marked by any county, municipal, state or federal governmental agency.
Special regulations apply for traps and this species when in Biscayne National Park.
 Can both stone crab claws be harvested?
Yes. Both claws of a stone crab may be harvested lawfully if they are of legal size. Although it is currently lawful to harvest both of a stone crab's claws, this practice leaves the stone crab with few alternatives to defend itself from predators.
Although the crab can still obtain minimal amounts of food with no claws, having one claw (if the other one is harvested) will enable the crab to obtain greater amounts of food in a shorter amount of time. Stone crabs (like other crustaceans) have the ability to grow back their claws, but this process requires a large amount of energy in the form of food.
The quicker the crab can obtain the energy required to molt and grow its lost claw, the sooner this renewable delicacy will have another claw to replace the missing one
More Information
 How to measure stone crab claws
 Traps
 Stone Crab Best Practices Video
 Regulaciones y mejores prácticas para el cangrejo moro
 Stone Crab Regulation Flyer
 Folleto del cangrejo moro
