Recreational Saltwater Fishing Regulations
 On this page
 On this page
 Enroll in the Recreational Marine Fishing Registry
All anglers (16 years and older) fishing in New York's Marine & Coastal District must enroll in the Recreational Marine Fishing Registry when angling for the fish species listed below. Anglers fishing for shark and tuna must also apply for NOAA Fisheries Highly Migratory Species permit. Visit Recreational Shark Fishing for information about prohibited shark species and shark fishing in New York.
The Registry is not required for harvesting crabs, lobsters, whelk, or shellfish.
A Lobster Recreational Permit is required for New York State residents to harvest lobsters.
Visit Crabbing in New York for more information on how to get started crabbing.
For recreational shellfishing information, visit Shellfish Harvest Limits.
Find fishing locations using DEC's Marine Boat Ramp and Fishing Access Interactive Map, and for more information, visit Public Access to New York's Marine Waters. For information on safe fish handling and using circle hooks, visit Best Practices for Saltwater Fishing.
 Saltwater Fishing Limits
*Regulations were last changed on May 12, 2026 and are subject to change at any time.* 
Species Minimum Size Limits 
(Total Length in Inches) (1) Possession Limits 
(Number of Fish) Open Seasons 
Winter Flounder 12" 2 April 1 - May 30 
Striped Bass: Hudson River (north of George Washington Bridge) (2) 
See Tidal Hudson River Regulations for more information. Slot size: 23" - 28" 1 April 1 - Nov 30 
Striped Bass: marine waters (beginning at the Hudson River south of George Washington Bridge) & Delaware River (2) 
 Slot size: 28" - 31" 1 April 15 - Dec 15 
Scup (Porgy) (3) Shore-based anglers: 9.5" 
Vessel-based anglers: 11" 
 30 
 May 1 - Dec 31 
Scup (Porgy) (3) 
PARTY/CHARTER BOAT ANGLERS
 11” 30 
40 
30
 May 1 - Aug 31
Sept 1 - Oct 31 
 Nov 1 - Dec 31
Summer flounder (fluke) (4) 19"
19.5"
 3 May 4 - Aug 1
Aug 2 - Oct 15
Black Sea Bass (5) 16" 3 
6 
 May 16 - Aug 31 
Sept 1 - Dec 31 
Oyster Toadfish 10" 3 July 16 - May 14 
Tautog (blackfish): Long Island Sound Region 
Marine and coastal district waters lying east of the Throgs Neck Bridge and west of a line that runs from Orient Point, NY to Watch Hill, RI 16" 2 
3 April 1 - April 30 
Oct 11 - Dec 9 
Tautog (blackfish): NY Bight Region 
Marine and coastal district waters lying outside of the Long Island Sound Region 16" 2 
4 April 1 - April 30 
Oct 15 - Dec 22 
American Eel 9" 25 for individuals 
50 for anglers aboard 
licensed party/charter boats All year 
American Eel 
(New York City: Harlem and East Rivers, 
Hudson River north to Troy Dam) 
See Tidal Hudson River Regulations for more information. 9" - 14" for use as bait only, otherwise 
possession prohibited 25 for use as bait only, otherwise possession 
prohibited All year for use as bait only, 
otherwise possession 
prohibited 
Atlantic cod 23" 5 Sept 1 - May 31 
Atlantic menhaden No size limit 100 All year 
Bluefish (including "snappers") No size limit 5 for individuals 
7 for anglers aboard 
licensed party/charter boats All year 
Cobia 43" Fishing from shore: 1 per angler 
Fishing from vessel: 1 per angler and a maximum of 2 per vessel All year 
Haddock 18" No limit All year 
Hickory Shad No size limit 5 All year 
King mackerel 23" 3 All year 
Monkfish (goosefish) 17" 
or 11" tail length No limit All year 
Pollock 19" No limit All year 
Red drum No size limit No limit for fish less than 27" TL 
Fish greater than 27" TL 
shall not be possessed 
All year 
Spanish mackerel 14" 15 All year 
Weakfish 16" 
10" filleted (6) 
12" dressed (7) 1 All year 
Yellowtail flounder 13" No limit All year 
Anadromous river herring 
(alewife and blueback herring) 
(north of George Washington Bridge) (8) 
See Tidal Hudson River Regulations for more information. No size limit 10 per angler or 
50 per boat March 15 - June 15 
Anadromous river herring 
(alewife and blueback herring) 
(south of George Washington Bridge) No possession No possession allowed No possession allowed 
American shad 
See Tidal Hudson River Regulations for more information. No possession No possession allowed No possession allowed 
Atlantic sturgeon Moratorium No possession allowed No possession allowed 
(1) Total length is the longest straight line measurement from the tip of the snout, with the mouth closed, to the longest lobe of the tail, with the lobes squeezed together, and the fish laid flat on the measuring device. 
(2) Non-offset (inline) circle hooks must be used when recreationally fishing for striped bass using bait defined as any live or dead, whole or part of a marine or aquatic organism or terrestrial invertebrate. Exemption: Circle hooks are not required when fishing with an artificial lure, whether or not they are tipped with bait as previously defined. 
(3) A party/charter boat customer who lands and possesses more than 30 scup during September 1 - October 31 must obtain a dated original fare receipt from the licensed vessel. 
(4) Summer flounder may not have heads or tails removed or be otherwise cleaned, cut, filleted, or skinned until brought to shore, with the following exception: the white side fillet or white skin only of a legal size fluke may be removed to use as bait. The carcass of the fluke with dark side completely intact must be retained for inspection of size limit and counts against the possession limit. 
(5) Black sea bass are measured from the tip of the snout (or jaw), with the mouth closed, to the farthest extremity of the tail, not including the tail filament. 
(6) The fillet length is the longest straight line measurement from end to end of any fleshy side portion of the fish cut lengthwise away from the backbone, which must have the skin intact, laid flat on the measuring device. 
(7) Dressed length is the longest straight line measurement from the most anterior portion of the fish, with the head removed, to the longest lobe of the caudal fin(tail), with the caudal fin intact and with the lobes squeezed together, laid flat on the measuring device. 
(8) Anadromous river herring is defined in 6 NYCRR Part 10 (except the Hudson River and its tributaries and embayments north of the George Washington Bridge at river mile 11).
Recreational Shark Minimum Size and Possession Limits
Category Species Minimum Size Limit Daily Possession Limit 
Allowed Sharks tiger, blacktip, bull, lemon, nurse, spinner, blue, porbeagle, common thresher 54 inches fork length (1) One shark per vessel per trip, except that 
one additional Atlantic Sharpnose and one 
additional Bonnethead may be taken and 
possessed per angler per trip. 
great hammerhead, scalloped hammerhead, smooth hammerhead 78 inches fork length (1) 
Atlantic sharpnose, bonnethead, finetooth No size limit 
smooth dogfish, spiny dogfish No size limit Any number 
Prohibited Sharks Atlantic angel, basking, bigeye sand tiger, bigeye thresher, bignose, blacknose, Caribbean sharpnose, dusky, Galapagos, longfin mako, narrowtooth, night, oceanic whitetip, reef, sand tiger, sandbar, sharpnose sevengill, shortfin mako, silky, bigeye sixgill, bluntnose sixgill, smalltail, whale, and white. Take (2) or Possession Prohibited Take (2) or 
Possession Prohibited 
*Regulations were last changed on August 27, 2025, and are subject to change at any time.*
(1) Fork length means the straight-line measurement of a fish from the tip of the snout to the fork of the tail. The measurement is not made along the curve of the body. 
(2) "Take" is defined in New York's Environmental Regulations - 6 NYCRR Section 40.6 and includes pursuing, capturing and killing sharks. Any angler who is making an effort to catch a prohibited shark species is pursuing or targeting that species in violation of 6 NYCRR 40.6(c)(1). Do not fish for or target prohibited sharks in New York waters. If captured, prohibited sharks must remain in the water and must be released immediately, without undue harm. These rules apply to all vessel-based and shore-based anglers. 
Other provisions: All landed sharks must have head, tails and fins attached. No sale allowed. No finning. Sharks, excluding spiny dogfish, shall not be taken for commercial or recreational purposes by baited hooking except with the use of non-stainless steel non-offset circle hooks. No person shall conduct, sponsor or participate in any shark tournament unless said tournament's rules and regulations require the exclusive use of non-stainless steel, non-offset circle hooks.
For all other shark fishing regulations, visit the Recreational Shark Fishing webpage. 
Recreational Crab, Lobster, and Whelk Limits
State law limits recreational take to no more than 50 crabs of any single species or combination of species may be harvested per person per day. At no time may a person be in possession of more than the daily recreational limit of five horseshoe crabs.
Species Minimum Size 
(Inches) Daily Take Limit Open Season 
American lobster (1) 
Recreational permit required 3 3/8" minimum carapace length 
5 1/4" maximum carapace length 6 LMA 4: closed April 30 - May 31 
LMA 6: closed Sept 8 - Nov 28 
All other LMAs: open all year 
Click here to view a large map of LMAs. 
Descriptions & locations of lobster 
management areas (LMAs) are available in 
Part 44: Lobster and Crab Regulations 
Blue crab (1) 
Hard shell 
Soft shell 
Peeler/Shedder (2) 4 1/2" 
3 1/2" 
3" 50 All year 
Jonah Crab (1) 4 3/4" All year 
All Other Crabs (1) 
(except blue and jonah crabs) No size limit All year 
Horseshoe crabs No size limit 5 All year 
Whelk All waters of NYS Marine & Coastal District except Long Island Sound: 
5 ½ inches shell length OR 
2 ¼ inches shell height 24 All year 
Long Island Sound:
5 1/4 inches in length OR 2 1/8 inches in height
Effective January 1, 2028: 
5 1/2 inches in length OR 2 1/4 inches in height 
*Regulations were last changed on May 11, 2022, and are subject to change at any time.*
(1) Lobsters and crabs with eggs may not be taken or possessed. 
(2) Peeler/shredder is when the crab is about to molt or shed its hard outer shell. At this stage, the crab has a fully formed soft shell beneath the hard outer shell. The impending shedding process is evident by the white coloration along the outer rim of the paddle-like appendages on the crab's fifth pair of legs. 
Other provisions: Terrapin Excluder Devices (TEDs) must be used on all non-collapsible crab pots or traps that are fished in creeks, coves, rivers, tributaries, and near-shore harbors of the Marine and Coastal District. TEDs shall be securely fastened inside each funnel entrance of the crab pot to effectively reduce the size of the funnel opening to no larger than 4-3/4 inch by 1-3/4 inch.
Recreational Bait Crab Limits
 Minimum Size
 Daily Take Limit(3)
 Daily Possession Limit
 Open Season
Mole Crab
 No size limit
 50
 No Possession Limit
 All year
Hermit Crab
 No size limit
 No Possession Limit
 All year
Green Crab(4),(5)
 No size limit
 No Possession Limit
 All year
Asian Shore Crab(6)
 No size limit
 No Possession Limit
 All year
State law limits recreational harvest to no more than 50 crabs of any single species or combination of species may be taken per person per day.
No person shall knowingly introduce into a free-living state European Green Crab or any other regulated invasive species, although such species shall be legal to possess, sell, buy, propagate and transport (see 6 CRR-NY 575.4). Green Crabs may be transported and sold alive but must be dead before being used as bait.
Anglers may purchase and possess any number of live or dead Green Crabs from harvesters and/or dealers who hold the Food Fish and Crustacea (FF&C) Dealers and Shippers License. Keeping a proof of purchase is encouraged. Bait shops are required to purchase Green Crabs from harvesters or dealers who hold a FF&C license. Bait shops are required to hold a commercial crab permit if they are harvesting Green Crabs for retail. 
No person shall sell, import, purchase, transport, introduce or propagate Asian shore crabs (see 6 CRR-NY 575.3). Asian shore crabs may be used as bait at the location where they are taken but must be dead before being used as bait. 
Download and Print Recreation Saltwater Fishing Regulations
Recreational Saltwater Fishing Limits (PDF)
Recreational Shark Fishing Limits (PDF)
Recreational Crab, Lobster, and Whelk Limits (PDF)
Translations for Saltwater Fishing Regulations
Below are copies of New York Saltwater Fishing Regulations in Spanish. For additional language access services, contact DEC Division of Marine Resources at [email protected] or call 631-444-0430.
Español: Límites de pesca recreativa en agua salada (PDF)
한국어: 레크리에이션 바닷물 낚시 제한 (PDF) 
Ограничения на любительское морское рыболовство (PDF) 
休闲海水垂钓限额 (PDF) 
 Contact for this Page
Division of Marine Resources
123 Kings Park Blvd. (Nissequogue River State Park)
Kings Park, NY 11754
Phone: 631-444-0430
[email protected]
 This Page Covers
 Marine Coastal
 Icon
